# WeddingWire/swift-style-guide

## Types
- When to use structs vs. classes?

Use structs for all JSON models and view models

- When to prefer reference semantics vs. value semantics

if it's not a model or view model or an enum, make it a class/reference

## Testing

```swift
describe("ClassUnderTest") {
    context("when a situation arises") {
        //set up the situation
        context("when a subset of that situation arises (if necessary)") {
          // further set up the situation (if necessary)
          it("should behave a certain way") {
            // verify expectation
          }
        }
      }
    }
```

## Properties
- lazy for any property that is initialized with a value?


- @objc when good / bad?
This is kinda case-by-case.

The only consistently good time to use this is for target-action where you want to make the action private. i.e. (@objc private func foo(sender: AnyObject?) { //do shet } )

- omit type when imprinting enables (.color(), .scene()) etc..)
- omit 'self' whenever possible

## Protocols
- Declare protocols at the top of the source file where the primary type that adopts it will use it... unless it is widely adopted, then put it in a separate source file with the name of the protocol


## Constants
- How and where should we define constants?

All JSON fields must be in a constants struct of the format:

```swift
struct Module {
  struct ClassName {
    struct JSON {
      struct Keys {
        static let keyName = "key"
        .
        .
        .
      }

      struct Values {
        static let defaultVal = "default" //a default value
      }
    }
  }
}

example:
struct RealWeddings {
  struct Gallery {
    struct JSON {
      struct Keys {
        static let name = "gallery_name"
        .
        .
        .
      }

      struct Values {
        static let defaultParam = "default"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

For View Constants:

```swift

struct ViewClassNameConstants {
  struct SubviewName {
    static let xPadding = 45
  }
  .
  .
  .
}
```

## Control Flow
- preference for early exit (guard)

Any time there is a block-based callback and you need to reference self, use a guard to check weak self.

ex:
```swift
worker.doAsyncService() { [weak self] (response)
  guard let _self = self else { fatalError("self is nil, \(#function)") }  // if you don't need to fatalError and it makes sense, just return
  //do stuff

}
```

## Optionals
- When to prefer optional binding, optional chaining
use optional binding instead of optional chaining

- When to force unwrap vs. when not to (i.e. to catch programmer error …)
when the control flow "doesn't make sense" if the variable is nil, use guard/fatalError pattern to enforce

Implicitly unwrapped optionals:
When to use:
- model classes that use ObjectMapper for Initialization
- controllers that use configurators for dependency injection


## Access Control
When should we be using private vs. internal vs. public?

public: use when writing code in added frameworks (i.e. RequestKit)
private: use when you want to explicitly say something should not be tested or used by the subclass //vague
internal: the default, it should be used for everything left over

## Initialization
Lazy Closures for View Initialization should contain:
- View default configuration
- UILabel empty string/nil sizing bug handling (the thing that causes UILabels to size improperly if you don't give it an initial value)
- dependency injection
- default controls setup

Custom Views
- custom views should use a view model for layout

Dependency Injection
- unless there are demonstrable memory issues, ALWAYS inject dependencies in the initializer
- NEVER call singletons without injecting them in an initializer


## Extensions

The general rule of thumb: do NOT create an extension for 3rd party or Apple constructs unless explicitly approved by both leads.

The preferred method of doing things is still to have a helper class/decorator etc. before using an extension.


- When are they appropriate?
Never use an extension as a 'mix-in' for specific functionality -- If you ever find yourself using a protocol extension with a 'where' clause, this is a code smell!

Extensions may be used to organize code for a given class we own. For example:

```swift
extension WWHTMLTextView /* Actions */ {
    func clickedDetected(string:String, type:DetectedType, range:NSRange) {
        onClick?(string:string, type:type, range:range)
    }
}

extension WWHTMLTextView /* Detection */ {
  .
  .
  .
}

```

Extensions on Apple/3rd party constructs will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis but are generally discouraged.

ex:
```swift
extension String {
   func myStringRandomizer() {
      // blah blah blah
      // doing this will get your PR rejected unless BOTH Wess and Arvind approve your extension
   }
}
```

- should we declare protocol conformance at the point of extension or at the type declaration?
Whenever possible, declare protocol conformance at the point of type declaration

- How do we document their purpose?
Extensions should be documented at the point of implementation

- Where do they belong?
UI Extensions go in UI.swift


## View Controller
- purpose: layout View
- conforms to delegate/datasource protocols (i.e. tableview delegate/datasource, collectionview delegate/datasource)
- can contain animation and view-specific code ==== VERIFY
- contains view Model which is a struct that represents state
- contains func display(vm: Module.Scene.StateEnum)
- contains implicitly unwrapped reference to Interactor
- should pipe through all interactions to the interactor, REGARDLESS of whether the view controller can handle it without any actual modification from interactor and presenter
- UIViewController type


## Interactor
- purpose: get/assemble models (either from internet or cache)
- contains perform(req: Module.Scene.RequestEnum)
- contains implicitly unwrapped reference to the Presenter
- may employ smaller classes (like workers) to achieve purpose
- class type

## Presenter
- purpose: changes model objects into view models and arranges them in a way convenient to lay out. Responsible for view logic
- contains present(Module.Scene.ResponseEnum)
- contains implicitly unwrapped reference to the View Controller
- may employ smaller classes (like decorators) to achieve purpose
- class type

## Request Enum
- Module.Scene.RequestEnum
- do NOT send a ViewModel into this enum, you should only send the specific params that are important to this function

## Response Enum
- Module.Scene.ResponseEnum
- contains cases for models being piped through as well as cases for errors

## State Enum
- Module.Scene.StateEnum
- will often have a failure case for interactor network issues being piped through

## View Model
- purpose: view state. may, at times, be very similar to the model itself
- should NEVER contain any logic (i.e. if statements, for statements, etc.) --> this should live in the presenter
- struct type

## Parameter Naming
-  Prefer method names that read as grammatically correct
-  Avoid repeating name in method name and as external argument name
 - Example

 ```swift
 //Old
 func addToolBarToView(view: UIView) {}

 //New
 func addToolBar(to view: UIView){}

 ```
